# Network Infrasturcture
## Azure VPN Gateway
### On-premises network to Azure VPN:
#### Azure VPN need
- Virtual Network, Application Subnet, (GatewaySubnet for Virtual Network Gateway),

	GatewaySubnet: Use at least a /27 address mask to make sure you have enough IP addresses in the subnet for future growth

- Virtual Network Gateway with public ip,
- Local network gateway (target network gateway info with public ip and ip range),  
- Connections on virtual networ
k gateway sides(select **site-to-site** and input **on-premises ip info**,**shared key**)
	
#### On-premises side need 
- VPN device, 
- Virtual Network, 
- and configurations on VPN device (like **Sharedkey**,and Azure virtual network **gateway ip**). 

### Azure VPN to Azure VPN
Almost same as "Azure VPN need", but with **network-to-network** selected when config VPG connections.

### Also support point-to-site connection.
		
#### VPN type
	Policy-based VPNs: statically define which IP address behind each tunnel, for legacy vpn compatibility.(only for site-2-site, not recomanded,only support basic SKU)

	Route-based VPNs: we have network interface act as tunnel, ip routing (static or dynamic) decides 
		which tunnel to send each data packet. more resilient to topology changes.

	Refer: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/connect-on-premises-network-with-vpn-gateway/2-connect-on-premises-networks-to-azure-using-site-to-site-vpn-gateways 

## Azure ExpressRoute

	We can communicate with Microsoft Cloud Services (Office365, Azure, Dynamics365) by ExpressRoute, 
	it construct a private connection from on-premises to cloud connections from infrastructure level, 
	it is more safe and support much high-throughput, low-latency, use L3 level(address) connection, 
	use border gateway protocal which support dynamic routing 
	(exchange routes between on-premises networks and resources running in azure)
	
### Compare with VPN gateway
	(https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/design-a-hybrid-network-architecture/5-choosing-hybrid-architecture):
	Capability				VPN Gateway												ExpressRoute
	Azure services support	Azure Cloud Services and Azure Virtual Machines			Microsoft Cloud Platform
	Bandwidth				Up to 10 Gbps											Up to 10 Gbps or 100 Gbps (direct)
	Protocol				SSTP or IPsec											Direct over VLAN or MPLS
	Routing					Static or dynamic										Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)
	Connection resiliency	Active-passive or active-active							Active-passive or active-active
	Use case				Prototyping, dev, test, labs, RDC, and small production workloads		Access to all Azure services, enterprise-grade, supporting critical large-scale workloads
	SLA						99.95-99.99%											99.95%

### Service endpoints
	
Service in azure vnet can config virtual network service endpoints to have access to **PaaS** service in Azure (with private ip) when needed, 

and block all other access from internet to access our PaaS.

(PaaS side also need config that allow access from service endpoints in subnet we configured in previous step)

### Private link

If **custom service** don't want enable public access, but want to be accessed from other network, 

we can config **private link** service on target side link to the custom service;

then on other network side, we create **private endpoints** and connect to the private link service we created before.

(if the 2 vnet are overlapping, not able to peering together)

### Network security group

	inbound rules: allow or deny access to resources inside a subnet,
	outbound rules: allow or deny request start from the subnet,
	port: can be a range, or comma seperated ports
	NIC: network interface card, can have a required private ip and an optional public IP (one or both)(NSGs associated to NICs)
		
### Application security group

	Group network interfaces (ex: VM have that) together, 
	
	then in network security group create a inbound or outbound rule by the application security group (so we dont need hardcode ip(s))
		
### virtual networking peering
	The easiest way to connect different virtual network in azure (even in different region), 
	create peering settings in each vnet, only connected if have direct peering on both sides. 
	communicate over microsoft backbone infrastructure (not through a gateway or public network, 
	vm in peered network connect directly as if they are in same network, with same latency).

### Traffic Manager (DNS level routing)

	Geographic routing
	Performance routing: maintain ip range and region response time, select an active best performance node to service
	Priority routing
	Weighted routing
	...
	
### Azure Load Balance

	Internal load balance, public load balance,
	vm: not ensure anything, vm can in a same datacenter or even same physical machine.
	avaiable sets (99.95% service level agreement): ensure vm in a sets in different fault domain（network + physic machine).
	avaiable zone (99.99%): ensure the vm in a zone in different da center, 
		ensure if a data center offline, a zone still can serve users.
	
	by default use: five-tup hash to distribute connections to target, 
		also support source IP affinity to ensure same ip always distribute to same machine
		(called session persistence option when create rule for load balance).
	
	probes: ensure service in the set/zone online.
	
### Application Gateway

**frond-end ip address** (one public, one private, or both)

**routing rules**: 
		path-based routing: have a rule which can distribute request to different backend pools according to path of the request.
		redirect/add header/change response,

**Multiple site hosting**: can have a public ip bind to multiple DNS, and have multiple linsters to handle different DNS to different rules

**health probes**: ensure service in the set/zone online.

**backend pools**: a collection of applications (with lb).

**Web application firewall**(optional): sql-injection, cross-site scripts, bots, crawlers... refer: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/load-balance-web-traffic-with-application-gateway/4-create-configure-application-gateway
		
### Route table:

	we can overwrite the default routes in a virtual network, network virtual appliance 
	custom route: define route rules in a route table, and overwrite subnet default routes.
	Border Gateway Protocol to exchange routes between vnet (no example)
	network virtual appliance: a virtual appliance you can choose from azure market place (firewall, load balances, proxies,...), 
		which can filter and forward routes in the middle layer.

### IP Addressing schema

	private ip address - non-routable ip addresses:
	10.0.0.0/24 (10.0.0.0 ~ 10.255.255.255)
	172.16.0.0/20 (172.16.0.0 ~ 172.31.255.255)
	192.168.0.0/16 (192.168.0.0 ~ 192.168.255.255)
	
	public ip address are region specific, assign from a unique pool of a region.
	
	static ip address (public/private): when stopped or deallocated, ip address still there, not change.
	dynamic ip address (public/static): when stopped or deallocated, ip address will released.
	
	public ip address type (SKUs):
		basic: open to inbound/outbound by default, (use network security group to restrict), not support for avaiability zone scenarios.
		Standard: close to inbound traffic by default, support avaiability zone scenarios.
		
	public IP address prefix: give us a static range of IP address.
		
### Hybrid network services:
	Connect on-premise network to cloud vnet:
		ExpressRoute with VPN failover: VPN as failover, ExpressRoute with fast bandwidth, use jumpbox to connect to peered vnet
		hub-spoke topology (ExpressRoute/VPN as hub, use jumpbox to connect to peered vnet): 
			hub become the core of business have provide the foundations for much deeper business insight. 
	https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/design-a-hybrid-network-architecture/6-summary
	
### Azure network watcher:
	help diagnostic network issue, connection issue, and may provide the root cause.
	show topology: show a topology of a vnet
	IP flow verify: test from an ip if it can connect to a specific vm
	effective security rules: display all rules for a network interface
	packet capture:  record all of the packets sent to and from a VM
	Connection Monitor: check if 2 vm can communicate
	Network Performance Monitor tool: track and alert on latency and packet drops overtime
	Connection Troubleshoot:check the tcp connection between a source and dest vm, and provide you failed reason
	VPN troubleshoot tool: diagnostic problems with vnet gateway connections
	---- NSG flow logs: you can view information about ingress and egress IP traffic on network security groups
