# Knowledge gap found in practices

## Service Fabric:

    Microsoft Container Orchstator for deploying and managing microservice across a cluster of machines.
    Support Tier:
        Bronze: minimum 3 nodes, can scale up to Silver or Gold;
        Silver: minimum 5 nodes, can scale up to Gold, not able to scale down;
        Gold: minimum 7 nodes, can scale down to Silver.

## Application Gateway:

    Backend pool: have associated load balancer to distribure request across the pool.  
    so it have load balacing feature. while API management dont have load balancing feature integrated.

    Web application firewall: handle request before they reach a listener. this is optional feature.

    Provide regional routing solution (not global).

## Azure Front Door

    Global Load balancer.

## Azure Traffic Manager

    Global Load balancer (DNS).

## Azure Stream Analytics Job:

    Analysis data comes from IoT devices and applications, 
    but not easy to write different logic for different types of input data 
    (conside data format from IoT not changes frequently), 
    while function app can easily achieve the goal, adapter to change.

## GRS (geo-redundant storage):

    Replicate data to the paired region, nearly all paired region in the same geo-political boundary
    (besides Brazil South paired with South Central US)

## Storage:

    Encrypt by default, while blob and files support customize key

    Premium storage only support LRS.

    Default replication: RA-GRS (for standard).

    Only General-purpose V2 and BlobStorage support storage tiers

    archieve tier can only be set to the blob level, it is stored offline, not support ZRS. 
    (hot and cool tier can be set to account level)
    
	hot: frequently access
    cool: not frequently access, stored at least 30 days
    archive: rarely access, can stored at least 180days, need up to 15 hours to recovery

    archieve： you can config storage account in same or different subscription to save logs for analysis later.

    you can config blob storage policies to require time-based retention, blob storage/storage account v2 also support point in time restore.

## Alerts:

    Pay-As-You-Go model only support budget alerts: alert you when spending reaches or exceeds a predetermined amount.

    Credit alerts, quota alert only support for customers with Enterprise Agreement.

## Azure SQL Database (Azure SQL Database single instance):

    Transparent Data Encryption: protect data at rest;
    Always Encrypted: protect at rest and in transit, need specify a column to protect and need more effort, 
    	prevent admin and dbowner from viewing the protected data. 
	Key for encryption can store in Key Vault or in Windows Certificate Store.

    DTU-based service tier:
        Premium: support in-memory OLTP and columnstore index
        Standard: not support in-memory OLTP, not use for critical production env

        1000 DTUs: up to 8GB in-memory OLTP storage per pool;
        500 DTUs: up to 4GB...
        125 DTUs: up to 1GB...

    Support Hyperscale (up to 4 read replicas)

## Azure SQL Database elastic pool

    A pool for multiple database on a single server. Support eDTU and vCore based model.
    DTU based:
        basic: 1600 DTU
        standard: 3000 DTU
        premium: 4000 DTU
    VCore Based: 2-80cores,1-512GBspace
    Business Critical: 4-80cores, 1G-1T space

## Azure SQL Managed Instance

    For one sql server and multiple database, does not supprt DTU-based model, 
    only support vCore Model. Nearly 100% compatibility with SQL Server. 

## SQL Server on VM
    Always On Availability groups, provide HA, DR and read-scale balancing.
    Mirror is not recommanded (not supported in feature).
    100% compatibility with SQL Server. 

    Standard Load Balance (required if sql server VMs are in different availability zone), 
    or Basic Load Balance (sql server VM in a same availability set).

## Azure Data Factory

    ETL service for data movement and large scale data transformations.

## Azure Data Flow:

    Mapping Data Flow are visually designed data mapping in Data Factory.

    Schema Drift: fields, columns, types can be changed, while data Data Follow can:
        define source have multiple field name, data types, values and sizes;
        define transfirmation parameter can work with data parttens for fields and values;
        define expressions that understand parttens that to match imcomming fieds.

## Azure Advisor:
    
    a free service to recommand changes on high availability, security, performance and cost.

## Azure Stretch Database:

    Move old data (historical data) to Stretch Database with the rules we set
    (ex: date created before 3 months).

    Data in Stretch Database keeps available, and Query in applications not need to change, 
    as database egnine will transparent the query and merge the result silently.

## SQL Server Temporal Table (时态表)：

    have 2 datetime2 columns for tracking each row's lifecycle;
    have historcial table to track main table changes.

## Azure Cosmos Database:

    Multiple Model Datbase, Support:
        Core/SQL API;
        MongoDB API;
        Cassandra API;
        Gremlin API: grah database service;

## Azure Migration Tools:

    Azure Migrate: discory, assess and migrate vm servers, physical servers to azure.
    Data Migration service: assess SQL Server before migrate;
    Azure Database Migration Service: migrate SQL Server;
    Web app migration assistant: assess ad migrate web apps;
    Azure Data Block: migrate large amount of data.
    (no tool for migrate non-relational database)

## Managed identity

	A VM or other resouces can have only one system assigned managed identity, 
	but can have multiple user-assigned managed identity.

	Access grant to VM is passed to applications deployed to the VM.

	You can specify managed identity assignment in ARM, for both system and user assigned managed identities.

	System assigned can be created in ARM, while user assigned need explicitly created first.

## Availability Set

    Normally one availability set for the VMs (for one application) is enough.

    Fault Domain: a group of VM share same power source and network switch, 
    	so if one power or network failure in the domain, then all the resource in the domain become available. 
	But other fault domain not impacted, 
	value can be 1,2 (3 for if use unmanaged disk)

    Updated domain: all VM in an updated domain will restart together, 
	    only one updated domain would be updated at the time, 
	    update domain are used for patching VMs. 
	    Value can be 1~20

## Azure policy

    One policy can include multiple policy rules to meet a policy requirement with several restrictions.

## Azure Active Directory(Azure AD)

    Access Review: can be perforem once or periodically to remove users who no longer need access (or be a membership), 
    	user whom review is not performed also can be removed automatically.

    Azure AD Identity Protection: detect and prevent risky sign-ins.(Azure AD Premium P2 license)

    Conditional Access: control access to cloud apps, specify who and from which device,
		and other conditions that must met before the user can access the app (include MFA).

    Azure AD Privileged Identity Management: JIT, time-bound access to resource, 
	    required approval to active priviledged roles, 
	    notification when priviledged roles activited, 
	    Access audit history. (Azure AD Premium P2 license)

    Azure AD Connect (help integrate your on-premise directories with Azure AD): 
        Password hash synchronization;
        Pass-through authentication:
            (complex then Password hash sync,require install agent on an on-premise server);
        Federation integration;
        Sychronization；
        Health Monitoring (Azure AD Connect Heath is a premium feature).
    Prerequisite: domain controller or joined domain member with Server 2012+, with full GUI interface.
    
    Self-service Password Reset: allow end users to reset their password easily (not include on-premise admin).
        SSPR writes back: write back password to on-premise AD via Azure AD Connect Service.
    
    Authentication Methods: config smart lock-out, banned password, password protection...

## ARM templates

    JSON files, for provision resources, support loop to create many resources (like VM) with same configuration in parallel (while powershell scripts not support run in parallel).

## BC DR

    Data Protection Manager: backup date to on-premise storage or azure storage, 
		also support backup data to Azure Backup Vault;
		help restore data to the original source when outage occurs or the service unavailable. 
		support bare-metal backups of physical server with windows os.

    Azure Backup Vault: helps backup you data and recovery it from Azure Cloud. 

    Azure Site Recovery Service agent: can backup data, but not support bare-metal backup.

    Azure Site Recovery Provider: used for replicate VM to Azure, not for creating backup.

    Date Explorer: enable us view telemetry data in Azure.

## AzCopy

     A command line tool to copy files and blobs to or from Azure storage accounts.

## Data Migration Assistant

    identify compatibility issues before migrate on-primse SQL server to Azure SQL Database.
	
## Event Hub , Event Grid, Service Bus

    Event Hub: Telemetry and distributed data streaming (but not IoT, IoT have IoT Hub)
    Event Grid: React to status changes
    Service Bus: Order processing and financial transactions

## Azure Migrate Appliance

    Server assess tools use the azure migration appliance to discover and assess on-premise servers, 
	it only install on on-premise server, only one install is needed even have multiple location.
    it write the data it collected to CosmosDB.

## Network-intensive solution

    RDMA： Remote Direct Memory Access, allow computers exchange data in main memory directly 
		without involving the processor, cache or OS.

    some Hxx series and A8, A9, Nxx series vms support RDMA.

    some Hxx and Fxx series also can have 4 or more NICs.

    if not support RDMA, Enable configure for Accelerated Networking is another option.

## RTO, RPO

    Recovery Time Objective: time spend to recovery from disaster.
    Recovery Point Objective: acceptable data loss before recovery from disaster.

    Azure Site Recovery:
        Latest: need process all data sent to Site Recovery before data failover. provide lowest RPO.
        Latest processed: provide lowest RTO.
        Latest Multi-VM Processed: for on-premise VMs, not for physical servers.
        Latest app-consistent: when the app is not stateless.
    
    If recovery time objectives is very long and want to minimize cost, 
	can exclude Azure Site Recovery, just do some simple deployment manually(with ARM).

## App Service, VM Scale Set

    App service: up to 100 instances;
    VM Scale Set: up to 1000 instances, support multiple datacenters high availability.

## Blueprint

    When a resource is deployed from a blueprint, there is a connection between the blueprint and the resource 
	(for tracking and auditing purpose), while from ARM not have this connections.

    when an blueprint is unassigned, applied changes would not recover except resource locks would be removed.

## Azure File Sync

    A service allow us cache a number of azure file shares to on-premise windows servers or cloud VM

## Reserved Instances for the VMs

    base one 1 year, 3 year commitment and best suit for continual used vms. (if not, just Pay-As-You-Go)

## Azure Hybrid Benefit on the VMs

    saving cost by leveraging existing on-premise license, so you just pay for the infrastructure cost.

## ACI

    for quick deploy docker instance, with auto-scaling, not support orchestration ability.

## SQL Retention

    Azure SQL Database, Azure SQL Database Managed Instance, 
    all version support retention up to 10 years.
    Just for point in time restore, basic version on support 7 days, standard+ support 35 days.

    Azure SQL Data warehouse support only 7 days retention.

## Tags

    Can be applied to resource group and individual resource hierarchical level only, 
	cannot apply to subscription and management group level.
	
    Tags helps retrieve data for cost accounting and budgeting purposes.

## MFA features

    Mobile APP / SMS / Phone as second factor / Remember trusted devices/admin control over verification methods: 
		office 365 apps/ Azure AD Global Admin/ Azure AD Premium P1 or P2

    others(Fraud alerts, MFA reports, customer call, trusted IPs, MFA for on-premise applications): 
		Azure AD Premium P1 or P2 license

## JIT VM access

    From securtry center/VM configuration/scripts, we can config JIT access for VMs, 
	user may need request access first, 
	may need RABC role to access the VM (or use a server user+password)

## Microsoft Graph API

    Microsoft Graph API:
        Exposes REST APIs to access data on many Microsoft 356 services, including Azure AD Identity Protection.
    
    Azure AD API:
        Grant permission to Azure AD, read directory data, read/write devices/groups...

## Key Vault:

    Backup and restore works if they are in the same geography and subscription.
    (You cannot backup a secret from a key vault from one region and restore to another region in a different geographfy or subscription)
	otherwise you need download and import to bypassing the restriction.

    When encrypt a VM disk, need ensure the VM and Key Vault in the same region.

    Key Vault Access Policy (for secret in key vault): 
        assign access to system/user managed identities, 
        assign access to applications deployed to a VM directly.

    Key Vault Advanced Access Policy (for secret in key vault):
        assign access to VM/Azure Resource Manager for deployment;
        assign access to Azure disk encryption for volume encryption.

    RABC:
        control user access to the management panel (not secret).
## IoT hub

    Provide communicate between IoT (internet of Things) devices and IoT Application(like Stream Analystics).
	
	IoT Central: build base on IoT hub, provide Central UI (Management Center) so we can monitoring and interactive with IoT device.
	IoT Sphere: IoT security solution with hardware, OS, cloud component.

## Activity Logs

    Logging all activities made to resources, support service-level alert and subscription-level alert. 
    (Activity log support on resource group/ service/ subscription level)

## Strong Password Policy

    If not necessary, not use Strong Password with short term exporation, research shows that will cause customer use password easy to guess finally.

## B2B collaboration

    share application and resource to guest users without manage their account, just need they have a valid email.

## ExpressRoute Global Reach
    To enable ExpressRoute Global Reach between different geopolitical regions(not geographical region), your circuits must be Premium SKU.
    
    If data not in different geo-political regions, then dont need premium SKU version.

## Aure Billing
	
	Azure billings is invoiced Monthly.

