# knowledge gap found in exam

## SQL Database Auditing
    track database event and write them to audit log in your Azure storage account, Log Analytics workspace, or Event Hubs.
    permium storage is not supported for audit.
    paused Azure Synapse is not supported.
    1.GenV1, GenV2 and blob storages are supported for auditing
    2.Storage account location and SQL server location should be in the same region
## tenant & management group & blueprint & subscription
    one management group have only one tenant;
    blueprint definitation can be saved to management group level or subscription level.
    one blueprint definitation can assign to any subscription under the management group.

## key vault HA
    The contents of your key vault are replicated within the region and to a secondary region at least 150 miles away, but within the same geography to maintain high durability of your keys and secrets.

## Azure SQL Analystics
    Azure SQL Analytics collects and visualizes key performance metrics with built-in intelligence for performance troubleshooting.

## Azure policy 
    can assign to management groups, subscriptions, resource groups, or individual resources.

## Microsoft Office 365 IdFix
    IdFix is used to perform discovery and remediation of identity objects and their attributes in an on-premises Active Directory environment in preparation for migration to Azure Active Directory. 

## Shared Access Signatures (SAS)
    Also support specify start time / end time.

## API Management
    API Management Premium tier supports VNet deployment

## Azure App registration
    user in Azure AD able to access your app without prompted for authentication

## get token for Management Identity
    Azure Instance Metadata Service identity endpoint: Your code that's running in the VM can request a token from the Azure Instance Metadata Service identity endpoint, accessible only from within the VM: http://169.254.169.254/metadata/identity/oauth2/token

## CLR Store Procedure
    Supported by Azure SQL Managed Instance, not support by sql database single instance

## Disk Encryption
    Disks are encrypted by using cryptographic keys that are secured in an Azure Key Vault. You control these cryptographic keys and can audit their use.
## Azure Data Factory
    A self-hosted integration runtime can run copy activities between a cloud data store and a data store in a private network. 
## Azure File Sync agent
    The Azure File Sync agent is a downloadable package that enables Windows Server to be synced with an Azure file share
## Disk cache
    Log Disk: None—Log files have primarily write-heavy operations. Therefore, they do not benefit from the ReadOnly cache.
    Data Disk: readonly—If you have separate storage pools for the log and data files, enable read caching only on the storage pool for the data files.
    https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-sql/virtual-machines/windows/performance-guidelines-best-practices

## Storage Retention
    blobs can be created and read, but not modified or deleted: If time interval is specified - go for time based rentention policy, else go for legal hold. 
## VM Scale Set
    support multiple data centers, but only support one region.
## Azure Container Instance
    A container group is a collection of containers that get scheduled on the same host machine.
    The containers in a container group share a lifecycle, resources, local network, and storage volumes. 
    It's similar in concept to a pod in Kubernetes.
## AKS
    Also Provide built-in functionality to authenticate app users by using Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).

## Service Fabric
    Azure Service Fabric is a distributed systems platform that makes it easy to package, deploy, and manage scalable and reliable microservices and containers.
    You can use Azure Service Fabric to create Service Fabric clusters on any virtual machines or computers running Windows Server.
## Azure AD Application Proxy
    Enables users to access on-premises web applications from a remote client. Application Proxy includes both the Application Proxy service which runs in the cloud, and the Application Proxy connector which runs on an on-premises server. 
## Always Encrypted
    deterministic: Queries can perform equality comparison on columns encrypted
    randomized : Not Support.
## storage account pricing
    General-purpose v2 accounts deliver the lowest per-gigabyte capacity prices for Azure Storage, as well as industry-competitive transaction prices.