# operations
Learn how to monitor, analyze and manage the ongoing operation of the infrastructure in Azure.

## Resource groups
	logical container for resources deployed to azure. make it convenient to grouping/Manage/authorization/apply policy/lock/billing resources.

### tags
	attached to resources, can provide information like env/department/cost filter/other information. 
		resource group -> Edit columns -> add Tags 
		to show tags for all services in a resource group.

### policy
	define rules and enforce(assign) resource(properties) to follow. (Azure Policy)

### Access Control(RABC)
	in service(or resource group) overview page, we can manage access for the resource.
	
### Resource Lock
	in resource page, Locks menu provide 2 mode: Read-Only, Delete, 
	can deny any modify or only deny delete on resource 
	(or all resources for resource group)
	
## Azure Policy
 	use policy expression define which resource should have what properties, 
	 then assign it to a subscription or resource group. 
	 then we can check Compliance view from Policy service if any incompliant.
	
## Initiatives
	contains a set of policy, so we can assign and check complaint results easily.
	Also easy to change(we can change policy inside without change the assement) 
	(Also in Azure Policy service)
	
## Management Groups
	can have many child Management groups or Azure subscriptions, 
	a group can define Access Control, Policy(include initiatives) 
	and will be inherited by it children. 
	(**we have a root management group, 
	we can only apply the changes to root management if we have permission)
	
## Blueprint
	a declarative way to orchestrate the deployment of various resource templates 
	and other artifacts, include, resource groups, resource manager templates, 
	policy assignments, role assignments. 
	To use it we need: 
		create azure blueprint -> assign azure blueprint -> track the assignments.

	the relationship between the blueprint definition (what should be deployed) 
	and the blueprint assignment (what was deployed) is preserved
	
## Service Trust Portal
	 contains microsoft cloud service related audit / compliance report, 
	 also have entry for Compliance Manager.

## Compliance Manager
	 track, assign and verify our organization's compliance activities 
	 related to microsoft professional servics and cloud service.
	
## Azure Monitor
	collect,analyze logs (app/os/platform activities logs), then can generate alert, 
	or even response with some actions (email, autoscale, function/..), 
	automatic collect, but we can extend the data collected (collect more data) by 
	enable diagnostics, application insights,  install azure monitor(container or VM).
	
## Service Health
	notify and help you understand about azure service issue, 
	and keep us updated when that resolved. 
	help us prepare for planned maintenance and changes 
	which could affect our availability.
	
## Security Center
	manage the security of your infrastructure from a centralized location 
	(on-premise or in cloud), 
		for PaaS, it is integrated by default
		for IaaS, please enable "automatic provisioning" to install a service on the VM so it can collect data from that machine.
	
	Securty Center can:
		Monitoring cloud and on-premise workloads;
		automatically Apply Security Setting to new onboarded resources;
		provide security Recommandations;
		use machine learning to Detect malware process on your VM;
		Detect any potantial threats or breaches;
		provide JIT access control for network ports.
		(security here also contains goverment policies)
	
	In security center, we can find threats, and response automatically to that 
	by create logic app
	
## Application Insights
	gather information (performance, errors, exceptions) about our application, 
	and all data collected are stored in a workspace that an monitor can access. 
	setup in portal first, then install sdk in code, finally connect by the key 
	in portal. also can set availability test to check the health of our service
	(with action such as send email or function call). 
	Also can use Application Insights to monitor azure devops pipeline
	
## Azure Sentinel
	 for analyze enterprise security cross cloud provide or on-premise, 
	 need first setup a log Analytics workspace, 
	 then added to Sentinel, 
	 finally add different resources.
	 Connect to data source -> detect threats -> investigate and response
	
## Azure Monitor(collect Metric, Logs)
	Alert(resource, condition, action, alert details):
		Metric Alert: trigger when a defined threshold is exceeded.
		Activity Log Alert: trigger when a defined azure resource changed state.
		Log Alert: base on things write to log files.
	Smart groups: using machine learning algorithms, 
		join alert base one repeat occurrence and similarity automatically.
	Alert state: New, Acknowledged, Closed.
	Query: Logs using Kusto to query by resource and conditions, Metric support filter.
