# Migration, Business Continuity, Disaster Recovery

## Azure Migrate Service:
Assess your env's readiness for move to azure;
    
    1. Identify the servers, applications and services need to migration;
    2. Bring in IT and business team who work those service, so they can provide guidance,feedback, support for the migration;
    3. produce a full inventory and dependency map of the servers/services that are in the scope of migration;

    4. determine migration option:
            (optional below)
        a. Rehost in azure, minimal changes, just involves move vm to azure;
        b. Refactor: move service run on VM to PaaS, reduce operational requirements, improve release agility, and keep a lower cost.
        c. Rearchitect - take advantage of some cloud native features, like container, microservices, function;
        e. Rebuild: If Rearchitect is not even a good idea;
        f. Replace: find some SaaS can be used to replace some custom applications.
### Estimate monthly costs
    Azure Total Cost of Ownership(TCO) Calculator can help estimate the real costs.
### Get sizing recommendations for machines;
Migration VM/Application/Service to Azure;
            Tools: Azure Site Recovery, Azure Database Migration Service

### Decommission on-primise infrastructure
    Review opportunities to improve
    Monitoring
            Azure Monitor: can capture health and performance informations (for vm need install Log Analytics agent), Set alert bases on metrics (CPU, memory, autoscale metric, special text in log file...)
            Azure Sentinel: provides security information, event-management capabilities, along with aritficial intelligence to help protect, detect and response to security events.
    Azure Database Migration Service:
        Migration SQL workloads to azure;
    
## Azure Site Recovery
    Replicate workloads between a primary and secondary site.
    setup and manage replication settings, failover and failback in azure portal.
        Service Recovery Vault: use storage account to keep data backup, configuration settings and workloads;
        Target Resources;
        Configure network outbound conectivity;
        Set up replication on existsing VMs (install certification and mobility service)
        create recovery plan.
### Recovery time objective: Maximum amount of time a business can survive before normal service is restored.
### Recovery point objective: Maximum amount of data loss that can be acceptable during a disaster.
## Azure Backup

## Backup VM/File shares (Azure Files) / SQL SERVER in VMs/ SAP HANA DB in Azure VMs
        long-term retention, encryption, zero-infrastructure backup / RABC/ no internet connectivity required / soft delete / support LRS/GRS/RA-GRS / Provide built-in monitoring and alerting capabilities in a Recovery Service vault (use Recovery Service vault to manage and store backup data).
        
##  VM backup:
            App consistent / File system consistent / Crash consistent (doesnt guarantee OS and app data consistency)
        Policy:
            Snapshot tie: only store in local for up to 5 days;
            Vault tier: additionaly transfer to vault for security and longer retention.

        (a backup extension installed on vm, will read data blocks and only transfer changed blocks, snapshot need severl hours up to 24hours to transfer to vault if it is vault tier)

        VM restore:
            create a new VM / restore disk / replace existing (stop first) / Cross Region (create a vm or restore a disk).

## SQL backup
            Service Tier:
                Basic: 1 week;
                Standard / Premium: 5 weeks;
            Full Backup: every 1 week; 
            Differential Backup: everything changed since last full backup, every 12 hours; 
            Transactional backups: backup content of transaction logs, every 5-10 minutes;

            store backups in RA-GRS storage account, once database created, backup immediately.

        App Server Autoscaling:
            Scale Out /In: more or less instances;
            scale Up/Down: same instance, more resource like CPU/Memory...

            Rules: CPU/Memory/Disk Queue Length/Http Queue Lenght/Data In/Data out/Schedule Time.

            Multiple Rules: Scale Out/Up if one rule match, Scale Down/In if all rule macth;

            Cool Down time: will not scale immediately after a scale just done even if the rate not decrease.

            App Service Plan:
                free: 1GB disk space, up to 10 apps, a single shared instance, no SLA , 60 min/day
                shared: upto 100 apps, 240 min/day, no SLA;
                Basic: 3 dedicated instances, 99.95%SLA, unlimited apps;
                Standard: 10 dedicated instances, 99.95%SLA;
                Premium: 20 dedicated instances, 99.95%SLA;
                Isolated: 100 dedicated instances, 99.95%SLA;

## Design a geographically distributed architecture

### Azure CDN/ Azure DNS /AAD/ Azure Front Door
    global distributed, resilient to regional failures.

### Application Gateway
    not global distributed;

### Azure Traffic Manager
    Global load balance that use DNS records to route traffic to destination in multiple azure regions.

### Azure Front Door
    support only http, can route and filter base on http properties.

### App Service/ Function APP
    can duplicate in both regions, stateless design.

### Azure Storage Queues
    Redundancy: GRS or GZRS storage account (async copy);
        Redis Cache: create in both Region;

### Azure SQL Database: 
    geo-replication: the primary is writable, secondary is readonly (can manually change, or change in code, cannot automatically failover)

    auto failover groups: like geo-replication, but we can define a policy to make the secondary writable.
        
### Azure Cosmos DB:
    choose multiple-region accounts with multiple write regions;
        Multiple-region accounts with a single write region (we can enable automatic failover option)

    in Cosmos, data sync is synchronous,  when a change is applied, the transaction is not considered complete until replicated to a quorum of replices, then an ackownledgement is sent to the client
### Aure migrate
    VM Disk: 
        must disable bitlock; 
        OS disk less then 2TB, 
        data disk less than 32TB, 
        UEFI-boot OS Disk can be up to 4TB;
    prepare migration
        always install appliance/provider on cluster;
        for Microsoft Azure Recovery Service agent, need install on node or Hyper-V host.

    create migrate project:
        create migrate project -> select assessment tool -> select migration tool;
    prepare:
        install: install appliance on cluster;
        config: configure and connect to migration project;
        connect: connect appliance to VMWare VCenter Server; 
    migration:
        replicate each vm to azure;
        run a test migration;
        migrate the vms and complete the migration;


    
