## Governance Stratergy

**RBAC**: use allow mode, enfore access control to resources at a management group, a subscription, a resource group, or an individual resource level, has many build-in roles, apply to individual/groups/service principals / managed identities.

**resource locks** : prevent from delete(CanNotDelete lock) or change(ReadOnly lock), apply to a subscription, a resource group, or an individual resource

**tags**: provide metadata, apply to a subscription, a resource group, or an individual resource, can be used for:

    Resource management,
    Cost management and optimization,
    Operations management,
    Security Tags,
    Governance and regulatory compliance,
    Workload optimization and automation

**Policy**: enforce different rules across all of your resource configurations so that those configurations stay compliant with corporate standards, can be assign to a management group, a subscription, or a resource group

    Create a policy definition.
    Assign the definition to resources.
    Review the evaluation results.


**Policy initiative**： a set of related policies, so you can add new policy without assign again

**Azure Blueprints**: define a repeatable set of governance tools and standard Azure resources, so development teams can rapidly build and deploy new environments, it include:

    Role assignments
    Policy assignments
    Azure Resource Manager templates
    Resource groups

**Cloud Adoption Framework**： Cloud Adoption Framework consists of tools, documentation, and proven practices. The Cloud Adoption Framework includes these stages:

    Define your strategy.
    Make a plan.
    Ready your organization.
    Adopt the cloud.
    Govern and manage your cloud environments.

**Subscription design**: understand that subscription have some limit, it may affact your design, If you'll need to exceed those limits, you might need to add more subscriptions. If you hit a hard limit maximum, there's no flexibility to increase it. [management group, subscription, resouce group limit](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits)