# Choose a message queue solution

## Service Bus queues
- message >64kb
- send and receive transactional
- long-polling instead of polling
- FIFO
- automatic duplicate detection
- process as  parallel long-running streams
## Storage queues
- bigget than 80GB message
- service side logs of all transactions against the queue


## Fearures of Service Bus queues

Message sessions
    
    To create a first-in, first-out (FIFO) guarantee in Service Bus, use sessions. Message sessions enable exclusive, ordered handling of unbounded sequences of related messages.

Autoforwarding

    The autoforwarding feature chains a queue or subscription to another queue or topic that is in the same namespace.

Dead-letter queue

    Service Bus supports a dead-letter queue (DLQ). A DLQ holds messages that can't be delivered to any receiver. Service Bus lets you remove messages from the DLQ and inspect them.

Scheduled delivery
    
    You can submit messages to a queue or topic for delayed processing. You can schedule a job to become available for processing by a system at a certain time.

Message deferral

    A queue or subscription client can defer retrieval of a message until a later time. The message remains in the queue or subscription, but it's set aside.

Batching

    Client-side batching enables a queue or topic client to delay sending a message for a certain period of time.

Transactions

    A transaction groups two or more operations together into an execution scope. Service Bus supports grouping operations against a single messaging entity within the scope of a single transaction. A message entity can be a queue, topic, or subscription.

Filtering and actions

    Subscribers can define which messages they want to receive from a topic. These messages are specified in the form of one or more named subscription rules.

Autodelete on idle

    Autodelete on idle enables you to specify an idle interval after which a queue is automatically deleted. The minimum duration is 5 minutes.

Duplicate detection

    An error could cause the client to have a doubt about the outcome of a send operation. Duplicate detection enables the sender to resend the same message, or for the queue or topic to discard any duplicate copies.

Security protocols

    Service Bus supports security protocols such as Shared Access Signatures (SAS), Role Based Access Control (RBAC) and Managed identities for Azure resources.

Geo-disaster recovery

    When Azure regions or datacenters experience downtime, Geo-disaster recovery enables data processing to continue operating in a different region or datacenter.

Security
    
    Service Bus supports standard AMQP 1.0 and HTTP/REST protocols.

## Receive Modes
You can specify two different modes in which Service Bus receives messages: Receive and delete or Peek lock (has timeout).

